03. CREATE A FIREBASE PROJECT AND SET UP YOUR PROJECT

CREATE A FIREBASE PROJECT

1. In the Firebase console, click Add project, then name your project FriendlyChat.
  Remember the Project ID for your Firebase project.

2. Click Create Project.

Important: Your Firebase project will be named FriendlyChat, 
but Firebase will automatically assign it a unique Project ID in the form friendlychat-1234.
This unique identifier is how your project is actually identifier (including in the CLI), whereas FriendlyChat is simply a display name.

The application that we're going to build uses Firebase products that are available for web apps:
  - Firebase Authentication to easily allow your users to sign into your app.

  - Cloud Firestore to save structured data on the cloud and get instant notification when data changes.

  - Cloud Storaged for Firebase to save files in the cloud.

  - Firebase Hosting to host and serve your assets.

  - Firebase Cloud Messaging to send push notifications and display browser popup notifications.

  - Firebase Performance Monitoring to collect user performance data to your app.

Some the these products need special configuraion or need to enable using the Firebase console.

ADD A FOREBASE WEB APP TO THE PROJECT

1. Click the web icon </> to create a new Firebase web app.

2. Register the app with the nickname FriendlyChat, 
  then check the box next to "Also set up Firebase Hosting for this app", click Register app.

3. Click through the remain steps.
  You don't need to follow ths instruction now, these will be convered in later steps of this codelab.

ENABLE GOOGLE SIGN-IN FOR FIREBASE AUTH

To allow users to sign into the web app with their Google accounts, we'll use thr Google sign-in method.
You'll need to enable Google sign-in:
1. In the Firebase console, locate the Develop sextion in the left nav.

2. Click Authentication, then click the Sign-in method tab.

3. Enable the Google Sign-in Provider, then click Save.

4. (Optinal) Set the public-facing name of your app to Friendly Chat and choose a project support email from the dropdown menu.

ENABLE CLOUD FIRESTORE

The web app ues Cloud Firestore to save chat message and receove new chat messages.

You'll need to enable Cloud Firestore:
  1. In the Firebase console's Develop section, click Database.

  2. Click Create database in the Cloud Firestore pane.

  Please be careful to enable Cloud Firestore and NOT the Realtime Database for this codelab.
  Both options are on the same page, but you need to enable Cloud Firestore which is in the top section of the page. 

  3. Select the Start in the test mode option, then click Enable after reading the disclaimer about the security rules.

  Test mode ensures that we can freely write to the database during development.
  We'll make our database more secure later in this codelab.

ENABLE CLOUD STORAGE

The web app uses Cloud Storage for Firebase to store, upload and share pictures.

You'll need to enable Cloud Storage:

  1. In the Firebase console's Develop section.

  2. Click Get Started.

  3. Read the disclaimer about security rules for your Firebase project, then click Got it.

With the default security rules, any authenticated user can write anything to Cloud Storage.
We'll make sure our storage more secure later on this codelab.
